# Homework 19

## LearnSmart

1. AN estate is everything you own:
    * T
1. True or false: Estate planning is part of the overall process of financial and retirement planning.
    * T
1. To be sure your desires are known at your death, they should be accessible, understandable, and legally 
    * documented
1. t is critical to take __ to ensure that your beneficiaries will have the information and knowledge needed to survive emotionally and financially when you die.
    * steps
1. With many nontraditional households as a result of divorces, e.g., unmarried couples, single parents, which of the following is likely true?
    * There are many unique estate planning problems that need to be solved.
1. Death causes a transfer of your estate to:
    * your heirs and charities.
1. A substantial hardship may follow a person's death if necessary Blank______ are difficult to find.
    * documents
1. The three factors necessary to make your desires known upon death are Blank______.
    * accessible, understandable, documented
1. If you marry after you have made a will, the will is automatically __ unless certain conditions are met.
    * revoked
1. he need to organize and plan your estate is especially great when you are__ to ___years away from retirement.
    * 5-10
1. The simple will is not appropriate for Blank______.
    * estates that are to be passed on to children or others, complex/large estates
1. Which pieces of advice would financial planners and estate attorneys generally offer single parents and other single persons?
    * Plan early and get expert help.
    * Married couples have protections under estate law, but there are many pitfalls for single people and therefore expert help is often necessary.
1. Most states require that you leave your spouse a certain amount, usually a third to a(n) __ of the estate. This is a one-word answer.
    * half
1. A living will provides for your wishes to be followed if you:
    * become mentally/physically disabled and cannot act on your own behalf.
1. The types of complications that can occur as beneficiaries gather important estate documents include:
    * delay in receiving funds, loss of some funds, emotionally painfull delays
1. If you marry after you have made a will, the will is revoked automatically unless the will indicates an intent that Blank______ by a subsequent marriage or the will is drafted under circumstances indicating that it was made in contemplation of marriage.
    * it not be revoked
1. True or false: To be valid, the living will must be be signed in the presence of at least two witnesses.
    * T
1. A simple will cannot be used to pass estate assets on to anyone other than a(n)
    * Spouse
1. A durable power of  __ is a legal document authorizing someone to act on one's behalf.
    * attorney
1. The major drawback of the stated dollar will is that:
    * estate values can drop subsequent to preparation of the will, leaving the spouse with smaller bequests.
1. A letter of last instruction:
    * provides important final information.
1. A living will provides for your wishes to be followed if you become so physically or mentally __ that you are unable to act on your own behalf.
    * disabled
1. a __ is a legal arrangement through whic hone's assets are held by a trustee
    * trust
1. A substantial hardship may follow a person's death if necessary Blank______ are difficult to find.
    * Documents
1. A trust can help you avoid __ and immediately __ your assets to the beneficiaries.
    * probate, transfer
1. Which type of trust allows married couples to leave everything to each other tax free?
    * credit shelter
1. True or false: A letter of last instruction is a document authorizing someone to handle the business affairs of another person prior to death.
    * F
1. A letter of last instruction usually contains which of the following?
    * everything but names/instructions of how to dispose of property
1. A fee for administering a trust is usually based on the __ of the assets in the trust.
    * value
1. Joint ownership is a poor substitute for a will because:
    * it gives you less control over the disposition.
1. The benefits of establishing a trust include:
    * avoiding probate, providing the payment of estate taxes, esnsuring your property serves a desired purpose after your death, reducing estate taxes, providing income to beneficiaries
1. A credit-shelter trust allows Blank______ to avoid federal estate taxes.
    * couples
1. When you die with a will already prepared, it is called being __ in the eyes of the law.
    * testate
1. No __ tax is due on gifts up to $15,000 for 2021 to any one person in any one year.
    * gift
1. If you have not named an executor in your will, the probate court will:
    * appoint an administrator to carry out the instructions of your will.
1. According to the text, a married couple can give up to what amount of money per person in one year (based on 2021 exclusion amount) without incurring a gift tax?
    * 30k
1. 

## homework problems

1. In 2021, Joshua gave $15,000 worth of XYZ stock to his son. In 2022, the XYZ shares are worth $25,000. What was the gift tax in 2021?
    * 0
1. In 2021, Joshua gave $15,000 worth of XYZ stock to his son. In 2022, the XYZ shares are worth $25,000. What is the total amount removed from Joshua's estate in 2022 as a result of gift in 2021?
    * 25000
1. Barry and his wife Mary have accumulated over $4 million during their 45 years of marriage. They have three children and five grandchildren. How much money can Barry and Mary gift to their children in 2021 without any gift tax liability?
    * 90k
1. same question but grandchildren
    * 150k
1. The date of death for a widow was 2021. If the estate was valued at $2,129,000 and the estate was taxed at 40 percent, what was the heir’s tax liability? Use Exhibit 19-6 for Estate Exemption.
    * 0
1. Joel and Rachel are both retired. Married for 50 years, they’ve amassed an estate worth $10 million. The couple has no trusts or other types of tax-sheltered assets. If Joel or Rachel dies in 2021, how much federal estate tax would the surviving spouse have to pay, assuming that the estate is taxed at the 40 percent rate?
    * 0
1. 